and it came to pass in the sixth year in
the sixth month on the fifth day of the
month as I sat in my house with the
elders of Judah sitting before me that
the hand of the Lord God fell upon me
there then I looked and there was a
likeness like the appearance of fire
from the appearance of his waist and
downward fire and from his waist and
upward like the appearance of brightness
like the color of amber
he stretched out the form of a hand and
took me by a lock of my hair and the
spirit lifted me up between earth and
heaven
and brought me in visions of God to
Jerusalem to the door of the north gate
of the inner court where the seat of the
image of jealousy was which provokes to
jealousy and behold the glory of the God
of Israel was there like the vision that
I saw in the plain then he said to me
son of man lift your eyes now toward the
north so I lifted my eyes toward the
north and their north of the altar gate
was this image of jealousy in the
entrance furthermore he said to me son
of man do you see what they are doing
the great abominations that the house of
Israel commits here to make me go far
away from my sanctuary
now turn again you will see greater
abominations so he brought me to the
door of the court and when I looked
there was a hole in the wall
son of man
dig into the wall and when I dug into
the wall there was a door go in and see
the wicked abominations which they are
doing there so I went in and saw and
there every smoke of creeping thing
abominable beasts and all the idols of
the house of Israel portrayed all around
on the walls and there stood before them
70 men of the elders of the house of
Israel and in their midst stood jazz and
I on the son of shaphan each man had a
sensor in his hand and a thick cloud of
incense wet up Son of man have you seen
what the elders of the house of Israel
do in the dark every man in the room of
his idols for they say the Lord does not
see us the Lord has forsaken the land
turn again and you will see greater
abominations that they are doing so he
brought me to the door of the north gate
of the Lord's house and to my dismay
women were sitting there weeping for
Tammuz have you seen this of some of
them turn again you will see greater
abominations than these so he brought me
into the inner Court of the Lord's house
and there at the door of the temple of
the Lord between the porch and the altar
or about 25 men with their backs toward
the Temple of the Lord and their faces
toward the east and they were worshiping
the Sun for the east have you seen this
O son of man is it a trivial thing to
the house of Judah to commit the
abominations which they commit here for
they have filled the land with violence
then they have returned to provoke me to
anger
indeed they put the branch to their nose
therefore I also will act in fury my I
will not spare nor will I have pity and
though they cry in my ears with a loud
voice I will not hear